SETTING UP THE COMMON GOOGLE SHEET  (one-time, about 10 minutes)
Hypertension Screening app – Scudder College of Nursing

You need: a Google account (yours), a computer, and the file apps-script/Code.gs.
The sheet stays private to you. Phones can only ADD/UPDATE rows, and only if they
know your secret key.

A. CREATE THE SHEET AND PASTE THE SCRIPT
 1. Go to sheets.google.com and create a new blank spreadsheet.
    Name it, for example, "HTN Screening – All records".
 2. In the sheet, click the menu Extensions > Apps Script. A new tab opens.
 3. In the Apps Script tab, delete everything in the Code.gs box.
 4. Open apps-script/Code.gs (from the app folder or GitHub), copy ALL of it,
    and paste it into the empty Code.gs box.
 5. Near the top, find this line:
        const KEY = 'CHANGE-ME-TO-A-LONG-SECRET';
    Replace CHANGE-ME-TO-A-LONG-SECRET with your own secret key: at least
    20 letters and numbers, no spaces. Make it up yourself or use a password
    generator – do NOT reuse an example from anywhere. Keep the quote marks.
    Write the key down somewhere safe.
    (Do not change the PLACEHOLDER_KEY line below it.)
 6. Click the Save icon (floppy disk) or press Ctrl+S.

B. PUBLISH IT AS A WEB APP
 7. Click the blue Deploy button (top right) > New deployment.
 8. Click the gear icon next to "Select type" and choose Web app.
 9. Fill in:
        Description:      HTN sync
        Execute as:       Me (your email)
        Who has access:   Anyone
    Then click Deploy.
10. Google asks you to authorise. Click Authorize access, choose your account.
    If you see "Google hasn't verified this app", click Advanced >
    "Go to ... (unsafe)" > Allow. (This is normal for your own script.)
11. Copy the Web app URL shown (it starts with https://script.google.com/macros/s/
    and ends with /exec). Click Done.
12. Check: paste that URL into a browser. You should see a short text
    starting with {"ok":true,"app":"htn-screening-sync" ... and "keyConfigured":true.
    If keyConfigured is false, you did not change the KEY in step 5 – fix it and
    see step 24.

C. TYPE THE VILLAGE NAMES
13. Go back to your spreadsheet tab. A tab called "Villages" now appears at the
    bottom (it is created the first time the web app is opened in step 12),
    already containing Gudimallur, Avarakarai and Maniyampattu.
    If you do not see it, add a tab named exactly  Villages , type  Village
    in cell A1 and the village names below it.
14. Open the Villages tab and type the correct village names, one per row,
    under the existing ones (A1 stays "Village"). Check the spelling carefully –
    phones can only pick from this list. You can add names at any time.
    (Until a phone has downloaded this list, it uses the built-in list:
    Gudimallur, Avarakarai, Maniyampattu.)

D. CONNECT THE PHONES
15. On one phone, open the app: https://paulebe525.github.io/hypertension-screening/
16. Go to the Records tab > Sync settings.
17. Paste the Web App URL and type the secret key. Tap Save settings,
    then Test connection. You should see "Connected — key accepted ✓".
    The Village list card should then say "Using N villages from the Google Sheet".
18. Easy way for everyone else: tap Copy setup link and send that link to your
    students/staff (WhatsApp or email). When they open it, the app asks
    "Set up Google Sheet sync on this phone?" – they tap OK and are done.
    The link contains the key, so share it only with your team.
19. Entered by: the first time someone uses the app on a phone, the top of the
    Screen form asks for their name ("Entered by"). Records cannot be saved
    without it, and every record is saved with that name (column entered_by in
    the sheet). If a different person uses the phone, tap Change at the top of
    the Screen form and type their name.
20. Village: on the Screen form, the village is chosen from a drop-down list – it
    cannot be typed. Phones download the list from the Villages tab when the app
    opens and when internet returns, and keep a copy for use offline. After you
    add or correct villages, phones get the new list next time they open the app,
    or immediately with Records tab > Refresh villages.
21. From now on every save, edit and follow-up update is sent to the sheet
    automatically (tab "Records"). Without internet, records wait on the phone
    and are sent when the phone is back online, or when someone taps Sync now.
    The Records tab shows how many records are waiting, and each record shows
    "Synced" or "Not synced yet". Sample records are never sent.

E. GOOD TO KNOW
22. Do not rename the "Records" or "Villages" tabs or delete their first (header)
    row. You may add your own extra columns at the right of Records, or analyse
    the data in other tabs.
23. Before sync is set up (or if the Villages tab is empty), a coordinator can
    type a temporary list on a phone: Records tab > Village list > Local village
    list (one name per line) > Save local list. It is used only on that phone and
    only until the Google Sheet list is available.
24. If you ever edit the script (for example to change the KEY): Deploy >
    Manage deployments > pencil icon > Version: New version > Deploy. The URL
    stays the same. If you change the KEY, every phone must enter the new key
    (or open a new setup link).
25. To stop all phones from sending: change the KEY (step 24), or
    Deploy > Manage deployments > Archive.
26. The sheet contains personal health data. Do not share the sheet itself
    publicly; give view access only to people on the research team.

F. INSTALL THE APP ON EACH PHONE (recommended, 1 minute)
27. Android (Chrome): open https://paulebe525.github.io/hypertension-screening/
    (or the setup link) > tap "Install app" at the top of the Screen tab > Install.
    If the button is not shown: Chrome menu ⋮ > Install app (or Add to Home screen).
28. iPhone (Safari): open the same link in Safari > tap Share (square with an
    arrow) > Add to Home Screen > Add.
29. Open the app ONCE with internet after installing (and after setting up sync)
    so it downloads the village list. After that it opens and saves records with
    no internet; records are sent to the sheet when the phone is online again.
30. When "New version available – tap to update" appears, tap it (after saving
    the current person). Records on the phone are kept.
